# MovingShapes

*A repository of Triangle Charades and HSIT animation datasets*

In 2013, Professor [Andrew S. Gordon](https://asgordon.github.io/)'s Narrative Group at the University of Southern California's Institute for Creative Technologies developed two web applications that allowed users to make simple shape animations online.

First, the **Heider-Simmel Interactive Theater** application allowed users to create short films in the style of the classic film by Fritz Heider and Marianne Simmel, historically used in social psychology research. 
These short films each involved a Big Triangle, a Little Triangle, a Circle, and a box with a hinged Door. 

* Gordon, A. and Roemmele, M. (2014) An Authoring Tool for Movies in the Style of Heider and Simmel. In A. Mitchell et al. (Eds.): International Conference on Interactive Digital Storytelling, Singapore, November 3-6, 2014 (ICIDS-2014), LNCS 8832, pp. 49--60. Springer International Publishing Switzerland (2014). 

Second, the **Triangle Charades** application asked users to create one-character or two-character animations corresponding to a fixed vocabulary of actions, e.g., follow or jump.
As well, users were asked to guess what actions were exhibited in the animations created by other users.
The purpose was to crowdsource the generation and labeling of animations for automated action recognition.

* Roemmele, M., Archer-McClellan, H., and Gordon, A. (2014) Triangle Charades: A Data-Collection Game for Recognizing Actions in Motion Trajectories. 2014 International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, February 24-27, 2014, Haifa, Israel.

Both of these web applications used the [rotodrag-js](https://asgordon.github.io/rotodrag-js/) technology to enable simultaneous dragging and rotation using one finger on touch devices or using a mouse.

## Datasets

This repository contains some of the animation data collected using these two applications. 

In each case, the data files encode positional information generated by converting the original svg transforms from rotodrag-js into x,y, and rotation for each character. 
The first value in each line is the time from start, in milliseconds. 
The last value is the rotation of the door.

### Indiana University Extra Credit Movies

In the Fall of 2016 Katherine Metcalf and Prof. David Leake at Indiana University arranged to offer extra credit to students in Informatics and Computer Science classes in exchange for creating and narrating new movies using the *Heider-Simmel Interactive Theater* online application.

Provided here are 130 files containing animation data, and a json file containing titles and narratives for each submission.

### TriangleCOPA Movies

In the Summer of 2014, ICT summer intern Nicole Maslan authored 100 multiple-choice questions involving the Heider-Simmel characters as a benchmark for automated commonsense reasoning, called Triangle COPA.
The "COPA" part refers to a larger 1000-question benchmark known as the Choice of Plausible Alternatives benchmark. 
The smaller 100-question benchmark is described at the [TriangleCOPA](https://github.com/asgordon/TriangleCOPA) repository, and should be referenced as follows:

* Maslan, N., Roemmele, M., and Gordon, A. (2015) One Hundred Challenge Problems for Logical Formalizations of Commonsense Psychology. Twelfth International Symposium on Logical Formalizations of Commonsense Reasoning (Commonsense-2015), March 23-25, 2015, Stanford, CA.

Included in this repository is the animation data created to illustrate each of the 100 TriangleCOPA questions.

### Triangle Charades Actions

If it were possible to automatically recognize humanlike actions in the animation data, then one could develop a system that answered TriangleCOPA questions given only the object trajectories as input. 
The following papers describe an early supervised machine learning approach to this problem.

* Roemmele, M., Morgens, S., Gordon, A., and Morency, L. (2016) Recognizing Human Actions in the Motion Trajectories of Shapes. Proceedings of ACM Intelligent User Interfaces, March 7-10, 2016, Sonoma, CA.

Provided in this repository are user-contributed and user-validated animations corresponding to 31 one-character action labels and 32 two-character action labels, collected using the TriangleCharades web application.

## Python API

To aid in the analysis of these datasets, a simple Python API (*moving_shapes.py*) is provided that loads the data so that it can be easily routed to other data-analysis tools.

Examples for using this API are provided in the *examples.ipynb* Jupyter notebook.

## Utilities

Included in this repository are some useful utilities.

**util/viewer.py** is a utility for that recreates a visualization of an animation, taking its data file as an input parameter.
This utility is based on the *graphics.py* library written by John Zelle, which is included in the util/ folder.

**util/movie.py** is a utility for generating movie files or images of specific frames from any animation in the datasets.
This utility uses the dataset API along with the popular *Pillow* and *MoviePy* python modules.